In this video we're going to talk about exporting your work from guimpe to a novel format.
Now you will want to do this you will want to keep your work purely in GIMP forever.
You want to export it to a different format so you can either use it in your game share with friends
etc. etc..
And first of all we're going to go through the manual process of exporting and then we'll have a look
at a plug in our first plug in really early in the course to help us export multiple images all in one
lump.
Okay so let's focus on exporting our work and we're going to start with what is your image destination.
Now this is an important question because it's going to alter your end goal.
So for instance if we were creating emoticons or imo GS You will have a target resolution that you'd
be going for.
And at the moment our images are 8 by eight and just resizing them can cause problems.
And I want to show you that now as we go ahead and re size.
But first of all what is the problem.
Why can't we just share the image we've got in front of us.
Well an eight by eight image is simply too small to actually share and we need to make sure we have
a relatively straightforward method of not destroying our current work as well because the process we're
about to do could be quote unquote dangerous to your files.
Now before I've started this particular lecture and I'd advise you to as well is just to take a backup
of your work so far copy the folder it's in and just pop it to one side in case you accidentally hit
save.
And this is the problem when it comes to exporting.
We've got our original image here and eight by eight too small.
And if we change its size we actually change the fundamental image ultimately we want to keep this as
an 8 by image and not introduce any more complexity than is necessary.
So in this case we're going to have to start off by showing you how to resize your image and we can
do that through the image menu.
If we go ahead now and go to image and go down to scale image once we've gone to scale image we can
see we've got a width and height.
Now both of these will change at the same time providing the link for little thing that looks like a
chain link is actually linked together to the right of it.
And let's set this to a target resolution of 32 which is about right for sharing unless it hit scale
let's do nothing else.
We have done a form of resampling law lets do control shift Jay.
Now thats not the intended effect that looks like a chessboard after youve had too much to drink.
Thats no good.
So what has happened here.
Well what we forgot and I'm going to undo here I'm going to go control in Z and undo.
Doesn't matter too much because I've got my file backed up.
But this is the danger here if you make a mistake like that and save and don't realize you could in
fact ruin your original file.
So demetri You've got to back up.
Let's go back to scale image of this time.
Where do 32.
But this time where it goes down to quality.
There's an option to interpolate between the actual pixels and if we set that 10 none and hit scale
it will scale up and leave it not fuzzy it will actually just take a one to one representation and map
it out and we end up with the perfect size.
Now is not just in the program you need to worry about this or not necessarily worry but just be aware
of it.
If you just upload your image to a website and it's too small it might automatically and larger it and
therefore apply its own resampling.
But if we get it the right size to begin with that we want to share it at.
Then there's not going to be any resizing and we can control that and make sure it doesn't end up fuzzy
or blotchy or anything else it is as intended.
And of course finally now that we have our image ready to export we do need to export it so we go down
to file and go to export and we can see the shortcut there is control in EA.
It gives us an export menu.
Now you have to export it rather than save it as a p n g it says separates the paradigm between saving
your work and creating an alternative version.
In this case one without all of the options baked into it.
So in this case we've got Checker's not P N G.
That's absolutely fine.
In fact it's defaulted to PRNG.
If you go down towards the bottom you can select file type and change it and the reason we want to use
a p n g is because it's lossless.
If we use something like a j peg you will end up potentially with the same sort of artefact thing that
we had earlier because j peg is a compressed format.
It tries to shrink the image as small as possible.
In this particular case we want to as accurate as possible.
So we're going to use.
A P N G.
Now even create a new folder at this point and I am going to create a new folder and call it export.
The reason why I'm creating a folder called export is because that tells me the creator that this is
a volatile folder anything in it is just a cache.
It's just an intermediate step from the original.
Now once I've got this all laid out I can go and click export.
And it gives us some further options at this point.
I am just going to go ahead and click export.
Now if we go ahead and go to open we can see there's a folder called export and there's a Checker's
PRNG in if we open that up and zoom in.
And I'm going to use control shift and Jay to do that.
We can see if it is exactly how we intended it to be.
Now this is a dangerous situation because I've now got a 32 by 32 image that if I accidentally save
Well I could lose the whole feel of the 8 by 8 because if I now take my size my pencil down to 1 you'll
notice that instead of there being one pixel per black or white square it's now four pixels per black
or white square which is considerably different than what we had before.
Now it does give you more granularity as we can see here I can colorin inbetween the spaces but that's
not the idea and I'm going to undo that squiggle and with it like this.
If I was to accidentally now save it I would overwrite my work and that is why I asked you to make sure
you got a backup before you do this.
So this isn't an ideal workflow.
Is there another solution.
Indeed there is.
Because guimpe is open source there is in fact someone who's made an add on that will do some of this
for us and prevent us creating duplicate files to make sure we don't overwrite are original work.
So let's go take a look at that now.
It's called been.
An insteps.
Our first AD on blimp.
Now on a Windows system you can install it straight away from the installer.
On other systems you will have to install it manually.
So the great thing about the Windows one is you can go ahead and click straightaway installer for Windows
and that is only three hundred and fifty one killer bytes.
Shouldn't take too long to download.
I'm going to make sure my gimp is shut down.
Who's going to discard the changes I don't want overwrite anything and install of Windows that's downloaded.
I'm going to open that up and install it once it has installed.
We can see here has been successfully installed to use it's open up game farm a new batch.
Image manipulation.
Well let's give that a go.
So as Go ahead here and re open gimp take a few seconds to do an file batch image manipulation it's
there and ready for us.
So go ahead and open that up.
Now we've got ADD input files.
Okay so that's clicked the add button.
This is what's is going to happen to our file vs the process as it will go through.
So we need to resize the image first of all.
Sets an exact size in pixels.
We can do 32 by 32 interpellation none.
If we were to leave that as kubic we would end up with that fuzzy up sampling that we had before leaving
it to none means it's a one to one up scale.
And from 8 8 to 32 by 32 We should get a nice crisp final image.
Okay that's fine.
And then we need to export.
Is there change formats.
Yep there we go.
Let's change it to a p n g o k that's that done output folder.
Now I've not added any images yet because I want to make sure I've got everything set up and ready to
go.
Output folder.
Well let's outputs it into my export folder that I created earlier.
I don't need to create a folder just export app.
That's a bit annoying.
It disappeared under my start bar.
There we go.
There's the okay button.
So I got everything set up.
It's now time to add our images.
I'm going to go to add images had single images add folders.
So in this case I'm going to add single images as only four of them.
And we've got Checker's heart bowling ball.
Ah this is recently used.
This can be confusing from time to time.
Is my reason.
The use is not actually the folder I've been working in.
Let's go to that.
And now where in that folder we can select the images and gomi you shift select to select all of them
and I'm going to add them.
And let's just click apply now that already exists.
Do I want to override it.
I'm going to say yes in this case X.
Then we can see it's all done all the farr's have been processed with no errors.
Let's just close that down now and if we go to open up in our export folder we will have bowling ball
chequers heart and smile.
If I shift select the lot and open them up and then we can literally dive in how we can see that it's
already bigger because you can you can genuinely see it this time and having a look.
If I blow it up to sixteen hundred percent by using the five key who will see here that those have all
come across exactly how I intended to take them to and then at the right size to start sharing with
people.
And of course you know what time it is now.
Of course it's time for a challenge and for your challenge I'd like you to export your three images
that you made in the last lecture.
Make sure you've upscaled your images to 32 by 32 and export them as a P N G.
Now whether you choose to use Ben or you choose to do this manually.
If you do choose it manually make sure you create a backup of your work so you don't inadvertently save
the 32 by 32 We want the raw files the source files being 8 by eight all times and just a reminder that
you can get blimp by even following the link at the bottom of the screen.
You can click the link in the resources and of course you could use good old Google and type in the
word bump and it will come up towards the top of a search results.
And then please do show your work so far.
So balls of video now and give that a go.
Okay guys.
Welcome back.
How did you get on.
I hope you posted that on the community site so we can all see it.
And I am going to go post mine there right now.
Okay so I've landed on the community site here and I'm going to go down to the gimp's section and if
we go down to exporting your work.
Excellent.
There's an automatic post there saying oh you're the first person.
So let's go ahead this reply to that and I'm going to attach an image and in this case I'm going to
go find my image and drag it into the appropriate folder.
So I've gone to my folder structure to show you what I'm doing here and into export.
Those are my three.
One two three and then drag them in in order actually man.
Wants to spare loves.
Bowling.
Excellent.
There we go.
I'm just going to post that in.
And that looks great.
Hope you guys have done this too.
I look forward to seeing yours on the forum as well.
Take care and I will see you in the next lecture.